# Data Security Strategies
Several toolsets and technologies are commonly used as data security strategies:
- Encryption
- Hashing
- Key management
- Masking
- Obfuscation
- Anonymization
- Tokenization

## Encryption
The architecture of an encryption system has three basic components: 
- the data itself, 
- the encryption engine that handles all the encryption activities, 
- the encryption keys used in the actual encryption and use of the data.

Encryption aspects to consider:
- the storage of data on a system: 
    - when it is being accessed 
    - when it is at rest
- transmission of data and transactions between systems. 

**Any use of encryption will cause higher load and processing times, so proper scaling and evaluation of systems are critical when testing deployments and design criteria.**

As a last major concern, encryption does not ensure data integrity, only confidentiality within an environment.

### Data in transit (transmission of data)
The most common method for data-in-transit encryption is to use the well-known SSL and TLS technologies under HTTPS. Beyond using HTTPS, other common encryption methods for data in transit are VPNs (virtual private networks) and IPsec. These methods can be used by themselves but are most commonly used in parallel to provide the highest level of protection possible.

### Data at rest
Data at rest refers to information stored on a system or device (versus data that is actively being transmitted across a network or between systems). Some examples include **databases**, file sets, spreadsheets, documents, tapes, archives, and even mobile devices.

### Challenges with Encryption
A central challenge to encryption implementations is the dependence on key sets to handle the actual encryption and decryption processes. Without the proper security of encryption keys, or exposure to external parties such as the cloud provider itself, the entire encryption scheme could be rendered vulnerable and insecure.

### Encryption Implementations
#### Database storage systems
With databases two layers of encryption are typically applied. First, database systems will reside on volume storage systems. The database files can be protected through encryption methods at the volume storage system level.

The second layers is within the database system itself are encryption methods that can be applied to the data set, either wholesale or on a granular level, by encrypting specific tables or columns of data.

## Hashing
Hashing is a process of converting data of any size into a fixed-size output, known as a hash value, hash code, or message digest. This output is typically a unique representation of the original input data and is generated using a hash function.

A hash function takes the input data and performs a set of mathematical operations on it to create a hash value that is usually a fixed size, regardless of the size of the input data. The hash value is generally used as a digital fingerprint of the original input data and is used for several purposes, including **verifying the integrity of data, storing passwords securely, and detecting duplicates**. This process is widely referred to by common terms such as checksums, digests, or fingerprints.

**Hashing is a one-way function, which means that it is not possible to recreate the original input data from the hash value.**

## Key Management
Key management is a critical task that involves protecting encryption keys and controlling access to them. 

With regard to the storage of encryption keys, in a traditional data center configuration, the key management system will typically be on dedicated hardware and systems, segregated from the rest of the environment. Within a cloud environment, due to multitenancy, protection of the virtual machine hosting the key management system is vital.

Key storage can be implemented in a cloud environment in three ways:
1. Internal storage: the keys are stored and accessed within the same virtual machine as the encryption service or engine—it keeps the entire process together, and it is appropriate for some storage types such as database and backup system encryption. 
2. External storage, the keys are maintained separately from the systems and security processes (such as encryption).
3. External and independent service or system host the key storage. 

## Tokenization
Tokenization is the practice of utilizing a random and opaque “token” value in data to replace what otherwise would be a sensitive or protected data object. The token value is usually generated by the application with a means to map it back to the actual real value.

Tokens are not mathematically related to the original data, which makes them more secure against attacks such as brute-force decryption or dictionary attacks. It's worth noting that tokens can still be vulnerable to attacks such as **token guessing**, where an attacker tries to guess valid tokens in order to access sensitive data. 

The relationship between the token and the original data that is maintained through the use of a tokenization system. The **tokenization system generates a unique token** for each piece of sensitive data that needs to be tokenized, **and the token is then stored in a database alongside the original data**.
